This code is initially inspired by Vinh Khuc's code. (https://gist.github.com/vinhkhuc/e53a70f9e5c3f55852b0).
If you use any of the codes, please cite https://sites.google.com/site/jinxuphys2018/code/immune-response.

This work "Machine learning of immunological recognition" by Jin Xu (POSTECH and APCTP) and Junghyo Jo (KIAS) is now under review of PLOS ONE. And here is the current abstract.

Adaptive immunity is analogous to machine learning as the immune system learns about dangerous pathogens and discriminates them from safe self-molecules. For specific immunological recognition, each of immune cells has a unique receptor. The binding affinity between the receptors and antigenic peptides determines the immunological recognition following by subsequent responses. Is the integrated binding affinity sufficient to probe the digital information of peptide sequences? To answer this fundamental question, we examined whether the affinity-based discrimination of peptide sequences is learnable and generalizable by artificial neural networks (ANNs) that processes the digital information of receptors and peptides. We made use of large scale high-throughput data of T-cell receptors (TCRs) and open source of peptides amino acid sequence as input layer data, and computationally examined the success and failure of immune recognition based on the pairwise binding energy of their amino acid sequences as output layer data. Machine learning successfully captures the relevant information in their molecular interaction and discriminates strong and weak affinity pairs. This suggests the potential applicability of machine learning to predict the immune responsiveness of certain antigenic peptides once their sequence information is provided. In addition, we used two ways to describe amino acid with and without considering amino acid strength. The sequences with heterogeneous strengths of amino acid diminish TCR “reading” the exactly information of each amino acid site on peptides for immune response, although won’t affect the decision of immune recognition from the whole sequence. This can be one reason why nature TCRs prefer moderate amino acid compositions after thymic selection. Further, the designed machine can also be used to study different infectious diseases and autoimmune disease. Finally, our work may help describe and study other cell-cell molecular/protein-protein interaction through partially connected artificial neural networks with coarse-grained data from each receptor/individual. 
